# Book Highlights 39257964

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 10
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

A perfect problem has a solution, but not a solution that exists yet. There are countless problems in the world; many of them have existing solutions while others lie beyond our current capabilities. But between these two extremes lie some problems that we can solve if we invent a new way.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-07T04:05:52.038942Z*


---


## Highlight 2

We took our lack of live customer service very seriously. It was not just a way to keep our costs down, it forced us to develop more innovation to further reduce the need for customers to contact us.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-07T04:05:52.038919Z*


---


## Highlight 3

Innovation Stacks are hard to see in the present. You can view them more easily by looking back in time, for they change the course of history. In fact, much of history is simply a chronicling of ancient Innovation Stacks. From the thousands of examples that illustrate this principle, I have chosen four to examine closely. Square is one of them.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-07T04:05:52.038883Z*


---


## Highlight 4

The most interesting part of any market is its end. Why does the market stop at this point? There are lots of customers who would presumably purchase products if they could afford to, but they don’t. And there are presumably lots of companies that would love to sell products to these consumers if they could do so profitably. But at some point, the market just ends. This is also the point where entrepreneurship begins.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-07T04:05:52.038864Z*


---


## Highlight 5

The end of a market represents a standoff between the costs to produce a product or service and what people are willing to pay.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-07T04:05:52.038845Z*


---


## Highlight 6

From his perspective as the CEO of a company in an established market, those were all legitimate reasons that I might appear to be an idiot. But he overlooked one thing: we were not building in his market, we were building a completely new market for ourselves. It is impossible to prove something is impossible.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-07T04:05:52.038826Z*


---


## Highlight 7

Normally, the company founders pitch an idea while the VCs try to find problems with that idea. By presenting every possible problem that we could imagine, we changed this “attack and defend” vibe that often dominates such meetings.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-07T04:05:52.038806Z*


---


## Highlight 8

It comes down to making a single choice: taking on a problem nobody else has ever solved and doing whatever it takes to solve it. The first step is finding a problem that is perfect for you.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-07T04:05:52.038785Z*


---


## Highlight 9

Necessity mothers invention. You don’t plan to innovate, you don’t want to innovate, you don’t aspire to innovate, you have to innovate. It begins by putting yourself in a situation where innovation is the only alternative.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-07T04:05:52.038762Z*


---


## Highlight 10

Copying and innovation are partners. If you choose to solve a perfect problem and create explosive growth, most of what you do will still be copying, you just won’t copy everything. Copy when you can; invent when you must.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-07T04:05:52.038726Z*


---

