# Book Highlights 39257934

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

In an LBO, a small group of senior executives, usually working with a Wall Street partner, proposes to buy its company from public shareholders, using massive amounts of borrowed money.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-24T04:15:28.938443Z*


---


## Highlight 2

The only ones hurt were the company’s bondholders, whose holdings were devalued in the face of new debt, and employees, who often lost their jobs. In the sheer joy of making money, Wall Street didn’t pay too much attention to either group.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-24T04:15:28.938424Z*


---


## Highlight 3

Then along came Ross Johnson. It was, one wag noted, as if Hell’s Angels had merged with the Rotary Club.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-24T04:15:28.938404Z*


---


## Highlight 4

It was all true, but it was intellectual window dressing for something much deeper. He could never leave well enough alone. There was shit to be stirred.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-24T04:15:28.938385Z*


---


## Highlight 5

A former accountant, Johnson camouflaged the company’s poor results with an occasional bit of financial sleight of hand, sometimes stretching generally accepted accounting principles to their generally accepted limits.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-24T04:15:28.938365Z*


---


## Highlight 6

Pritzker had one other message. He wanted the Pritzker name kept out of the headlines. From here on out, he said, chopping the table with his hand for emphasis, the group must always be identified as “the First Boston group.” No one could tell whether the request was made out of altruism or fear of humiliation.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-24T04:15:28.938345Z*


---


## Highlight 7

“Watching these deals get done,” Forstmann concluded, “is like watching a herd of drunk drivers take to the highway on New Year’s Eve. You cannot tell who will hit whom, but you know it is dangerous.”


*Highlighted: 2026-03-24T04:15:28.938320Z*


---


## Highlight 8

John Gutfreund and Tom Strauss were prepared to scrap the largest takeover of all time because their firm’s name would go on the right side, not the left side, of a tombstone advertisement buried among the stock tables at the back of The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-24T04:15:28.938254Z*


---


## Highlight 9

To Goldstone, it was clear what this tactic was about: It was what traders called a “fuck you” bid. Simply put, Cohen and Gutfreund were so mad at Kravis they wanted to shove an offer right in his face. Goldstone silently cursed these men and their giant egos.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-24T04:15:28.938232Z*


---


## Highlight 10

In the mid-fifties the company and the Reynolds family teamed to move Wake Forest University from its campus 100 miles to the east. The American Tobacco heirs had moved a college to Durham and renamed it Duke University; Reynolds made sure Winston-Salem got the same treatment.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-24T04:15:28.938196Z*


---


## Highlight 11

“I have a reputation, it’s all I have, and I don’t want to lose that reputation,”


*Highlighted: 2025-10-29T04:05:59.208407Z*


---


## Highlight 12

He had always told his partners that once you lose your temper, you lose the deal.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-29T04:05:59.208368Z*


---


## Highlight 13

By the mid-1980s competitors such as Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch were thrusting into LBOs and, in efforts to compete with Drexel’s junk-bond capabilities, had begun lending their own money in interim takeover financings known as “bridge loans.” These loans were typically refinanced, or bridged, by the later sale of junk bonds. The trend was collectively known as merchant banking, a highfalutin term that basically meant investment banks were putting their money where their mouths had been for years.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-29T04:05:59.208332Z*


---


## Highlight 14

“The minute you establish an organization, it starts to decay.”


*Highlighted: 2025-10-29T04:05:59.208295Z*


---


## Highlight 15

Johnson arrived twenty minutes late, punctually, to everything. “If you’re on time, no one notices you,” he would say. “If you’re late, they pay attention.”


*Highlighted: 2025-10-29T04:05:59.208234Z*


---


## Highlight 16

Kravis was a small, intense man with silvery hair, just forty-three. He spent much of the dinner extolling LBOs, how pouring on debt made a company tighten its operations, how executives could reap millions from little extra effort. “If you’re interested, maybe we could get together,” Kravis said. “If you’d like, we could send out people to look at your numbers.”


*Highlighted: 2025-10-29T04:05:59.208196Z*


---


## Highlight 17

“That was a blinding glimpse of the obvious” (sometimes shortened to simply “a BGO”).


*Highlighted: 2025-10-29T04:05:59.208159Z*


---


## Highlight 18

(There was an unwritten rule that Reynolds executives didn’t drive anything bigger than a Buick. Even years later, when David Rockefeller came to Winston-Salem for a speech, an assistant asked that he be provided with a limousine.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-29T04:05:59.208124Z*


---


## Highlight 19

They found larger companies could be acquired as easily as small ones, for the simple reason that they had larger cash flows; by diverting that money to pay down its debt, Kohlberg Kravis was able to use a company’s own strengths to acquire it.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-29T04:05:59.208083Z*


---


## Highlight 20

“CEOs learned two things from LBOs,” says Dick Beattie, who remained in the midst of major deals through the ’90s. “First, the way to build significant wealth was through equity ownership, not salary and bonuses, and second, you didn’t need to do any LBO to build equity. You could give yourself stock options.”


*Highlighted: 2025-10-29T04:05:59.208029Z*


---

