# Book Highlights 39257969

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

But nothing changed the surveillance game more than Apple’s unveiling of the first iPhone in 2007. TAO hackers developed ways to track an iPhone user’s every keystroke, text message, email, purchase, contact, calendar appointment, location, and search, and even capture live audio and video feeds of her life by hijacking her phone camera or hot-miking her microphone.


*Highlighted: 2026-01-26T04:13:06.038934Z*


---


## Highlight 2

Three years after the United States and the Israelis reached across Iran’s borders and destroyed its centrifuges, Iran launched a retaliatory attack, the most destructive cyberattack the world had seen to date. On August 15, 2012, Iranian hackers hit Saudi Aramco, the world’s richest oil company—a company worth more than five Apples on paper—with malware that demolished thirty thousand of its computers, wiped its data, and replaced it all with the image of the burning American flag.


*Highlighted: 2026-01-26T04:13:06.038916Z*


---


## Highlight 3

Spies coined a name for these attacks: “The race to the bare metal.” The closer to the bare metal of a computer that TAO’s hackers got, the deeper and more resilient their access.


*Highlighted: 2026-01-26T04:13:06.038897Z*


---


## Highlight 4

Apple was something of a redheaded stepchild in Silicon Valley. It sold things—phones, tablets, watches, and computers—not data. It didn’t make its money tracking purchases, or searches, or from targeted advertising. It was, Cook told me over one of our meetings that year, what he valued most about Apple. And the letters were getting to him.


*Highlighted: 2026-01-26T04:13:06.038878Z*


---


## Highlight 5

In other words, the NSA was making fools of anyone who believed they could thwart spies using off-the-shelf encryption tools like VPNs—virtual private networks that route a person’s web activities through a protected, encrypted tunnel. Theoretically, the whole point of using a VPN is to shield your data from would-be snoopers and spies.


*Highlighted: 2026-01-26T04:13:06.038859Z*


---


## Highlight 6

And then there were the problems with the market itself. If efficient markets require high levels of transparency and free flows of information, then the zero-day market was just about the least efficient model you could imagine.


*Highlighted: 2026-01-26T04:13:06.038839Z*


---


## Highlight 7

At the most basic level a zero-day is a software or hardware flaw for which there is no existing patch. They got their name because, as with Patient Zero in an epidemic, when a zero-day flaw is discovered, software and hardware companies have had zero days to come up with a defense.


*Highlighted: 2026-01-26T04:13:06.038814Z*


---


## Highlight 8

James and Ewan assured us that Greenwald was more reasonable than the screeching mess of a man we saw on Twitter every day. But despite their repeated promises to fetch the missing memos from Greenwald’s Brazilian compound, it was clear that somebody was in no mood to share his toys.


*Highlighted: 2026-01-26T04:13:06.038767Z*


---


## Highlight 9

The Russians had cleverly disguised their malware as a tax software update from the company’s systems, and now all its mom-and-pop operators could do was half cry, half laugh at the role they had played in nation-state cyberwar.


*Highlighted: 2026-01-26T04:13:06.038744Z*


---


## Highlight 10

Zero-days were critical to national intelligence gathering, and only becoming more so as encryption shrouded the world’s communications in secrecy. In a growing number of cases, zero-days were the only way governments could keep from “going dark.”


*Highlighted: 2026-01-26T04:13:06.038710Z*


---


## Highlight 11

In one of the more glaring examples, a programming mistake, a single missing hyphen, sent the Mariner 1—the first American spacecraft to attempt an exploration of Venus—off-course, forcing NASA to destroy its $150 million spacecraft 294 seconds after launch, or risk it crashing into a North Atlantic shipping lane or worse, a heavily populated city.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-01T04:04:59.408760Z*


---


## Highlight 12

What had saved Ukraine is precisely what made the United States the most vulnerable nation on earth. Ukraine wasn’t fully automated.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-01T04:04:59.408741Z*


---


## Highlight 13

Perhaps Michael Hayden, the former NSA director, put it best when he said “This has a whiff of August 1945,” the month and year the United States dropped the world’s first ever atomic bomb on Hiroshima. “Somebody just used a new weapon, and this weapon will not be put back in the box.”


*Highlighted: 2025-08-01T04:04:59.408721Z*


---


## Highlight 14

Russia’s interference in Ukraine’s 2014 elections was just the opening salvo for what would follow—a campaign of cyberaggression and destruction the world had never seen.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-01T04:04:59.408701Z*


---


## Highlight 15

While Tehran could never hope to match America in conventional weapons or military spending, Olympic Games had shown Tehran that cyberweapons had just as much potential to exact destruction.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-01T04:04:59.408680Z*


---


## Highlight 16

Starting in 2016, the U.S. National Security Agency’s own cyber arsenal—the sole reason the United States maintained its offensive advantage in cyberspace—was dribbled out online by a mysterious group whose identity remains unknown to this day. Over a period of nine months a cryptic hacker—or hackers; we still don’t know who the NSA’s torturers are—calling itself the Shadow Brokers started trickling out NSA hacking tools and code for any nation-state, cybercriminal, or terrorist to pick up and use in their own cyber crusades.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-01T04:04:59.408660Z*


---


## Highlight 17

“The NSA’s fatal flaw is that it came to believe it was smarter than everyone else,” Peter G. Neumann, one of America’s sages of cybersecurity, told me one day.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-01T04:04:59.408640Z*


---


## Highlight 18

Zero-days do not stay secret indefinitely. One study by RAND Corporation, the research corporation that concentrates on U.S. defense planning, found that while the average zero-day exploit can stay secret for nearly seven years, roughly a quarter of zero-day exploits will be discovered within a year and a half.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-01T04:04:59.408619Z*


---


## Highlight 19

“The most likely way for the world to be destroyed,” it read, “most experts agree, is by accident. That’s where we come in; we’re computer professionals. We cause accidents.”


*Highlighted: 2025-08-01T04:04:59.408595Z*


---


## Highlight 20

Organizations can’t stop the world from changing. The best they can do is adapt. The smart ones change before they have to. The lucky ones manage to scramble and adjust, when push comes to shove. The rest are losers, and they become history.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-01T04:04:59.408530Z*


---

