# Book Highlights 39257944

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

We assume that being good at things like calculus and algebra is a simple function of how smart someone is. But the differences between the number systems in the East and the West suggest something very different—that being good at math may also be rooted in a group’s culture.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-02T04:15:40.214851Z*


---


## Highlight 2

Because we cling to the idea that success is a simple function of individual merit and that the world in which we all grow up and the rules we choose to write as a society don’t matter at all.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-02T04:15:40.214818Z*


---


## Highlight 3

Our ability to succeed at what we do is powerfully bound up with where we’re from, and being a good pilot and coming from a high–power distance culture is a difficult mix. Colombia by no means has the highest PDI, by the way. Helmreich and a colleague, Ashleigh Merritt, once measured the PDI of pilots from around the world. Number one was Brazil. Number two was South Korea.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-02T04:15:40.214784Z*


---


## Highlight 4

To come to New York City in the 1890s with a background in dressmaking or sewing or Schnittwaren Handlung was a stroke of extraordinary good fortune. It was like showing up in Silicon Valley in 1986 with ten thousand hours of computer programming already under your belt.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-02T04:15:40.214750Z*


---


## Highlight 5

Jewish doctors and lawyers did not become professionals in spite of their humble origins. They became professionals because of their humble origins.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-02T04:15:40.214718Z*


---


## Highlight 6

What was required of Ratwatte was that he communicate, and communicate not just in the sense of issuing commands but also in the sense of encouraging and cajoling and calming and negotiating and sharing information in the clearest and most transparent manner possible.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-02T04:15:40.214690Z*


---


## Highlight 7

What was the difference between the As and the Cs? Terman ran through every conceivable explanation. He looked at their physical and mental health, their “masculinity-femininity scores,” and their hobbies and vocational interests. He compared the ages when they started walking and talking and what their precise IQ scores were in elementary and high school. In the end, only one thing mattered: family background.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-02T04:15:40.214662Z*


---


## Highlight 8

They are products of history and community, of opportunity and legacy. Their success is not exceptional or mysterious. It is grounded in a web of advantages and inheritances, some deserved, some not, some earned, some just plain lucky—but all critical to making them who they are. The outlier, in the end, is not an outlier at all.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-02T04:15:40.214629Z*


---


## Highlight 9

The term used by linguists to describe what Klotz was engaging in in that moment is “mitigated speech,” which refers to any attempt to downplay or sugarcoat the meaning of what is being said. We mitigate when we’re being polite, or when we’re ashamed or embarrassed, or when we’re being deferential to authority.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-02T04:15:40.214576Z*


---


## Highlight 10

Working in a rice field is ten to twenty times more labor-intensive than working on an equivalent-size corn or wheat field. Some estimates put the annual workload of a wet-rice farmer in Asia at three thousand hours a year.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-02T04:15:40.214521Z*


---


## Highlight 11

“NO ONE WHO CAN RISE BEFORE DAWN THREE HUNDRED SIXTY DAYS A YEAR FAILS TO MAKE HIS FAMILY RICH.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-16T05:38:31.520139Z*


---


## Highlight 12

To become a chess grandmaster also seems to take about ten years. (Only the legendary Bobby Fischer got to that elite level in less than that amount of time: it took him nine years.) And what’s ten years? Well, it’s roughly how long it takes to put in ten thousand hours of hard practice. Ten thousand hours is the magic number of greatness.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-16T05:38:31.520119Z*


---


## Highlight 13

Virtually all of the advantage that wealthy students have over poor students is the result of differences in the way privileged kids learn while they are not in school.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-16T05:38:31.520098Z*


---


## Highlight 14

It’s not enough to ask what successful people are like, in other words. It is only by asking where they are from that we can unravel the logic behind who succeeds and who doesn’t.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-16T05:38:31.520076Z*


---


## Highlight 15

Lareau calls the middle-class parenting style “concerted cultivation.” It’s an attempt to actively “foster and assess a child’s talents, opinions and skills.” Poor parents tend to follow, by contrast, a strategy of “accomplishment of natural growth.” They see as their responsibility to care for their children but to let them grow and develop on their own.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-16T05:38:31.520053Z*


---


## Highlight 16

Cultural legacies are powerful forces. They have deep roots and long lives. They persist, generation after generation, virtually intact, even as the economic and social and demographic conditions that spawned them have vanished, and they play such a role in directing attitudes and behavior that we cannot make sense of our world without them.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-16T05:38:31.520011Z*


---


## Highlight 17

The sense of possibility so necessary for success comes not just from inside us or from our parents. It comes from our time: from the particular opportunities that our particular place in history presents us with.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-16T05:38:31.519992Z*


---


## Highlight 18

The particular skill that allows you to talk your way out of a murder rap, or convince your professor to move you from the morning to the afternoon section, is what the psychologist Robert Sternberg calls “practical intelligence.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-16T05:38:31.519973Z*


---


## Highlight 19

But there’s a catch. The relationship between success and IQ works only up to a point. Once someone has reached an IQ of somewhere around 120, having additional IQ points doesn’t seem to translate into any measurable real-world advantage.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-16T05:38:31.519951Z*


---


## Highlight 20

Each of us has his or her own distinct personality. But overlaid on top of that are tendencies and assumptions and reflexes handed down to us by the history of the community we grew up in, and those differences are extraordinarily specific.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-16T05:38:31.519917Z*


---

