# Book Highlights 39257960

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

One of his favorite books was actually called Complexity, by M. Mitchell Waldrop. His favorite paper to pass out was “How Complex Systems Fail,” an eighteen-bullet-point summary by Richard I. Cook, now a professor of health care systems safety in Sweden.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-08T04:17:57.258942Z*


---


## Highlight 2

It was astonishing, when you stopped to think about it, how aggressively capitalism protected its financial middleman, even when he was totally unnecessary.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-08T04:17:57.258922Z*


---


## Highlight 3

By the middle of 2011, roughly 30 percent of all stock market trades occurred off the public exchanges, most of them in dark pools.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-08T04:17:57.258902Z*


---


## Highlight 4

Then came the so-called flash crash. At 2:45 on May 6, 2010, for no obvious reason, the market fell six hundred points in a few minutes.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-08T04:17:57.258882Z*


---


## Highlight 5

Scalpers Inc. trades for the sole purpose of interfering with trading that would have happened without it. In buying from every seller and selling to every buyer, it winds up: a) doubling the trades in the marketplace and b) being exactly 50 percent of that booming volume. It adds nothing to the market but at the same time might be mistaken for the central player in that market.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-08T04:17:57.258863Z*


---


## Highlight 6

The orders resting on BATS were typically just the 100-share minimum required for an order to be at the front of any price queue, as their only purpose was to tease information out of investors. The HFT firms posted these tiny orders on BATS—orders to buy or sell 100 shares of basically every stock traded in the U.S. market—not because they actually wanted to buy and sell the stocks but because they wanted to find out what investors wanted to buy and sell before they did it. BATS, unsurprisingly, had been created by high-frequency traders.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-08T04:17:57.258844Z*


---


## Highlight 7

People on Wall Street were simply paid too much to lie and dissemble and obfuscate, and so every trusting feeling in the financial markets simply had to be followed by a trailing doubt.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-08T04:17:57.258825Z*


---


## Highlight 8

Regulation National Market System. Passed by the SEC in 2005 but not implemented until 2007, Reg NMS, as it became known, required brokers to find the best market prices for the investors they represented. The regulation had been inspired by charges of front-running made in 2004 against two dozen specialists on the floor of the old New York Stock Exchange—a charge the specialists settled by paying a $241 million fine.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-08T04:17:57.258805Z*


---


## Highlight 9

By late 2011, when Bollerman quit his job (“I felt there was a lack of leadership”), more than two-thirds of Nasdaq’s revenues derived, one way or another, from high-frequency trading firms.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-08T04:17:57.258783Z*


---


## Highlight 10

Levine and Morgan did what everyone on Wall Street did when they wanted to find out what was going on inside a rival bank: They invited some of its employees in for job interviews.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-08T04:17:57.258749Z*


---


## Highlight 11

Since the flash crash back in May 2010, the S&P index had risen by 65 percent, and yet trading volume was down 50 percent: For the first time in history, investors’ desire to trade had not risen with market prices.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-09T04:05:39.017384Z*


---


## Highlight 12

A front-runner sells you a hundred shares of some stock to discover that you are a buyer and then turns around and buys everything else in sight, causing the stock to pop higher (or the opposite, if you happen to be a seller).


*Highlighted: 2025-10-09T04:05:39.017363Z*


---


## Highlight 13

“What you’re looking for ultimately is large brokers who are behaving idiotically with their customers’ orders. That’s the real gold mine.”


*Highlighted: 2025-10-09T04:05:39.017341Z*


---


## Highlight 14

Another incentive of Scalpers Inc. is to fragment the marketplace: The more sites at which the same stocks changed hands, the more opportunities to front-run investors from one site to another.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-09T04:05:39.017320Z*


---


## Highlight 15

Russians had a reputation for being the best programmers on Wall Street, and Serge thought he knew why: They had been forced to learn to program computers without the luxury of endless computer time.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-09T04:05:39.017299Z*


---


## Highlight 16

If you worked for a big Wall Street bank, the easiest way to find out what other banks were up to was to seek out their employees who were looking for new jobs and interview them.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-09T04:05:39.017276Z*


---


## Highlight 17

Thus the only Goldman Sachs employee arrested by the FBI in the aftermath of a financial crisis Goldman had done so much to fuel was the employee Goldman asked the FBI to arrest.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-09T04:05:39.017255Z*


---


## Highlight 18

By mid-2007 Goldman’s bond trading department was aiding and abetting a global financial crisis, most infamously by helping the Greek government to rig its books and disguise its debt, and by designing subprime mortgage securities to fail, so that they might make money by betting against them.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-09T04:05:39.017231Z*


---


## Highlight 19

After the meeting, RBC conducted a study, never released publicly, in which they found that more than two hundred SEC staffers since 2007 had left their government jobs to work for high-frequency trading firms or the firms that lobbied Washington on their behalf.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-09T04:05:39.017163Z*


---


## Highlight 20

Arnuk and Saluzzi, the principals of Themis Trading, have done more than anyone to explain and publicize the predation in the new stock market. They deserve more lines in this book than they receive but have written their own book on the subject, Broken Markets.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-09T04:05:39.017129Z*


---

