# Book Highlights 39257978

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

Most importantly, Bezos didn’t penalize Ian Freed and other Fire Phone managers, sending a strong message inside Amazon that taking risks was rewarded—especially if the entire debacle was primarily his own fault.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-22T04:05:05.345106Z*


---


## Highlight 2

If Bezos took one leadership principle most to heart—which would also come to define the next half decade at Amazon—it was principal #8, “think big”: Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Leaders create and communicate a bold direction that inspires results. They think differently and look around corners for ways to serve customers.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-22T04:05:05.345087Z*


---


## Highlight 3

He also exposed them to a steady stream of Jeffisms: about one-way and two-way doors; how double the experimentation equals twice the innovation; how “data overrules hierarchy” and there are “multiple paths to yes”—an Amazonian notion that an employee with a new idea who gets a negative reaction from one manager should be free to shop it to another, lest a promising concept get smothered in infancy.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-22T04:05:05.345067Z*


---


## Highlight 4

“I really do believe when ingenuity gets involved, when invention gets involved, when people get determined, when passion comes out, when they make strong goals—you can invent your way out of any box. That’s what we humans need to do right now. I believe we’re going to do it. I’m sure we’re going to do it.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-22T04:05:05.345047Z*


---


## Highlight 5

Years later, Wulff reflected on that wistfully and considered it an illustration of the Amazon leadership principle that stipulates leaders must be “vocally self-critical.” “That’s when I learned a lesson that regardless of whether you just delivered the biggest revenue day in Amazon’s history, your first sentence is, ‘We fucked up.’ ”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-22T04:05:05.345027Z*


---


## Highlight 6

Jeff Bezos placed prospective business opportunities into one of two buckets. There were land rushes, when the moment was ripe, rivals were circling, and Amazon had to move quickly or else it would lose out. Then there was everything else, when the company could bide its time and patiently experiment.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-22T04:05:05.345007Z*


---


## Highlight 7

“The most important thing Jeff has brought is a culture of experimentation,” Prakash said. “None of us feel that if we spend money and screw up some big project that we’re going to have to face an auditing committee. We are not afraid to fail.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-22T04:05:05.344987Z*


---


## Highlight 8

“There are two ways of building a business. Many times, you aim, aim, aim, and then shoot,” he said, according to three executives who were there. “Or, you shoot, shoot, shoot, and then aim a little bit. That is what you want to do here. Don’t spend a lot of time on analysis and precision. Keep trying stuff.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-22T04:05:05.344966Z*


---


## Highlight 9

“It has always seemed strange to me…. The things we admire in men—kindness and generosity, openness, honesty, understanding, and feeling—are the concomitants of failure in our system. And those traits we detest—sharpness, greed, acquisitiveness, meanness, egotism, and self-interest—are the traits of success.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-22T04:05:05.344943Z*


---


## Highlight 10

He was a ravenous reader, leading senior executives in discussion of books like Clayton Christensen’s The Innovator’s Dilemma, and he had an utter aversion to doing anything conventionally. Employees were instructed to model his fourteen leadership principles, such as customer obsession, high bar for talent, and frugality, and they were trained to consider them daily when making decisions about things like new hires, promotions, and even trivial changes to products.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-22T04:05:05.344908Z*


---


## Highlight 11

Then he had an epiphany, recognizing the flywheel, or virtuous cycle, that was powering his business. By adding outside vendors and additional selection to Amazon.com, the company drew in new shoppers and earned commissions on those sales, which it could use to lower prices or subsidize faster delivery. That in turn drew in more shoppers and attracted more sellers—and the process repeated itself. Invest in any part of the loop, Bezos reasoned, and this cycle would accelerate.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.162884Z*


---


## Highlight 12

In this revamped performance review system, peers and managers were asked to write sixty words describing an employee’s “superpower,” and another sixty to describe a “growth idea” for the year ahead. “It was all about looking forward and being motivational,” Galetti said.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.162849Z*


---


## Highlight 13

If Bezos took one leadership principle most to heart—which would also come to define the next half decade at Amazon—it was principle #8, “think big”: Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Leaders create and communicate a bold direction that inspires results. They think differently and look around corners for ways to serve customers.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.162813Z*


---


## Highlight 14

We all know that if you swing for the fences, you’re going to strike out a lot, but you’re also going to hit some home runs. The difference between baseball and business, however, is that baseball has a truncated outcome distribution. When you swing, no matter how well you connect with the ball, the most runs you can get is four. In business, every once in a while, when you step up to the plate, you can score 1,000 runs. This long-tailed distribution of returns is why it’s important to be bold.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.162780Z*


---


## Highlight 15

This unusual and decentralized corporate culture hammered into employees that there was no trade-off between speed and accuracy. They were supposed to move fast and never break things.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.162745Z*


---


## Highlight 16

“Every interesting thing I’ve ever done, every important thing I’ve ever done, every beneficial thing I’ve ever done, has been through a cascade of experiments and mistakes and failures,”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.162710Z*


---


## Highlight 17

“If I have to choose between agreement and conflict, I’ll take conflict every time,” Bezos often said. “It always yields a better result.”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.162675Z*


---


## Highlight 18

Jeff always said that when you focus on the business inputs, then the outputs such as revenue and income will take care of themselves.”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.162639Z*


---


## Highlight 19

“Averages are bad measures. I want to see actuals, highs, lows and why—not an average. An average is just lazy.”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.162603Z*


---


## Highlight 20

“The biggest needle movers will be things that customers don’t know to ask for,” he would write years later in a letter to shareholders. “We must invent on their behalf. We have to tap into our own inner imagination about what’s possible.”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.162550Z*


---

