# Book Highlights 39257983

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

He concluded that while there might be ways of reducing to a small extent the wildest fluctuations of the cycle, the goal of ridding America of the business cycle was a fool’s errand.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-03T04:05:14.534872Z*


---


## Highlight 2

Popular campaigns to reduce the government’s reach by legislation or state constitutional amendment have similarly led to contradictions: limiting tax-raising powers by law is at odds with a legal commitment to pay off a budget deficit.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-03T04:05:14.534853Z*


---


## Highlight 3

Friedrich Hayek arrived in London in January 1931 to take up Robbins’s invitation to deliver four lectures based on his study of the business cycle and his attempt to prove, in “The ‘Paradox’ of Saving,”1 that recessions were not caused by a lack of desire from customers to buy goods.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-03T04:05:14.534834Z*


---


## Highlight 4

In the process he met the man who would become the most important and long-lasting influence on his life and work, Ludwig von Mises, an economics lecturer at the University of Vienna with close contacts in the Austrian government who had studied the rising prices engulfing his country.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-03T04:05:14.534815Z*


---


## Highlight 5

He asserted that the common perception that the extremes of Left and Right were polar opposites was a misapprehension, for both, by replacing market forces with comprehensive state planning, assaulted individual liberties. He reiterated his belief that as economic planners cannot know the will of others, they end up acting like despots.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-03T04:05:14.534795Z*


---


## Highlight 6

A third key element to Reaganomics, also promoted by Laffer, was “supply-side economics,” the notion that a booming economy could best be achieved by encouraging producers to supply more and cheaper goods by cutting industry regulations and corporate taxes rather than relying on “demand-led” growth spurred by Keynesian public spending.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-03T04:05:14.534772Z*


---


## Highlight 7

Friedman was in favor of cutting taxes not only because he believed individuals knew better than politicians how their money should be spent, but also because when taxes were cut, government spending had to be reduced.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-03T04:05:14.534752Z*


---


## Highlight 8

“The machinery of capitalistic production will function smoothly only so long as we are satisfied to consume no more than that part of our total wealth which under the existing organization of production is destined for current consumption. Every increase of consumption, if it is not to disturb production, requires previous new saving.”


*Highlighted: 2025-08-03T04:05:14.534732Z*


---


## Highlight 9

For classical economists, interest rates depended on the relationship between savings and investment: if too many people saved, interest rates fell, encouraging them to invest in businesses to maximize their yield; if too few saved, interest rates rose to attract more savers.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-03T04:05:14.534710Z*


---


## Highlight 10

As the jobless figures continued to rise, Keynes became more vociferous in his view that the government should reduce interest rates by issuing government bonds. In addition, Keynes became persuaded that the government was duty-bound to directly employ workers in public works projects, such as building roads.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-03T04:05:14.534676Z*


---


## Highlight 11

Central planning, Hayek would argue, deprives individuals of a fundamental freedom.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:19.045062Z*


---


## Highlight 12

For members of the Austrian School, the business cycle was thought to be set in motion by the difference between the natural and the market rate of interest. The problem for central bankers was that it was impossible to determine exactly what the natural interest rate was, so they inevitably set the market rate of interest at an inappropriate level, thereby setting off the booms and busts of the business cycle.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:19.045035Z*


---


## Highlight 13

Tellingly, and perhaps surprisingly for those who subscribe to Hayek’s general aims today, he advocated mandatory universal health care and unemployment insurance, enforced, if not directly provided, by the state, and he believed there should be free movement of labor across national borders.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:19.045009Z*


---


## Highlight 14

He suggested that as long as the gold standard persisted, central banks would not be able to manage credit so that savings and investment were kept equal, as they would instead be using interest rate policy to maintain the currency at the fixed rate.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:19.044984Z*


---


## Highlight 15

By the early 1990s, Taylor’s rule, showing the trade-off between interest rates and the rate of inflation, named after the Stanford economist John Taylor,22 came to replace the Phillips curve, the trade-off between employment and inflation, as the equation of choice for those running the economy.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:19.044957Z*


---


## Highlight 16

The nub of the issue, according to Hayek, was that by reducing interest rates, the central bank interfered in the relationship between savings and investment.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:19.044931Z*


---


## Highlight 17

He believed in a “middle way” between capitalism and socialism, between conservatism and social democracy, and between what he believed to be the primitive dogmatisms of both sides.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:19.044905Z*


---


## Highlight 18

Keynes introduced in the supplements the first step toward recommending that governments manage their economies, a line of thinking that would set him apart from Mises, Hayek, and other devotees of the free market. European governments were being obliged to choose between inflation and deflation. For Keynes, this was evidence that laissez-faire was no longer appropriate. He advocated instead that the government act to prevent prices from fluctuating.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:19.044878Z*


---


## Highlight 19

“The important thing for Government,” he wrote, “is not to do things which individuals are doing already, and to do them a little better or a little worse, but to do those things which at present are not done at all.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:19.044850Z*


---


## Highlight 20

Keynes believed it was a government’s duty to do what it could to make life easier, particularly for the unemployed. Hayek believed it was futile for governments to interfere with forces that were, in their own way, as immutable as natural forces.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:19.044810Z*


---

