# Book Highlights 39257972

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

He seemed able to fix his mind on a problem nonstop for weeks on end, and he had a passion for thinking; the very act of thinking seemed to excite him, irrespective of the thoughts he arrived at.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.274702Z*


---


## Highlight 2

I am a storyteller, for better and for worse. I suspect that a feeling for stories, for narrative, is a universal human disposition, going with our powers of language, consciousness of self, and autobiographical memory.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.274680Z*


---


## Highlight 3

There is a danger, when old friends meet, that they will talk mostly of the past.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.274660Z*


---


## Highlight 4

Edelman’s theory was the first truly global theory of mind and consciousness, the first biological theory of individuality and autonomy.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.274638Z*


---


## Highlight 5

One of his findings—unexpected and baffling at first—was that neuronal constellations or maps could change in a matter of seconds as the animal learned or adapted to different sensory inputs.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.274616Z*


---


## Highlight 6

It was not that I was indifferent to Michael; I felt a passionate sympathy for him, I half-knew what he was going through, but I had to keep a distance also, create my own world of science so that I would not be swept into the chaos, the madness, the seduction, of his.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.274596Z*


---


## Highlight 7

I sometimes wonder why I have spent more than fifty years in New York, when it was the West, and especially the Southwest, which so enthralled me. I now have many ties in New York—to my patients, my students, my friends, and my analyst—but I have never felt it move me the way California did. I suspect my nostalgia may be not only for the place itself but for youth, and a very different time, and being in love, and being able to say, “The future is before me.”


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.274575Z*


---


## Highlight 8

Thom was always a tremendous walker, striding up and down the hills of San Francisco. I never saw him with a car or a bicycle; he was quintessentially a walker, a walker like Dickens, who observed everything, took it in, and used it, sooner or later, in what he wrote.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.274555Z*


---


## Highlight 9

I am very bad at factual exams, yes-or-no questions, but can spread my wings with essays.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.274533Z*


---


## Highlight 10

My father would eat continually in the presence of food but go all day without food if it was not available; it is similar with me. In the absence of internal controls, I have to have external ones. I have fixed routines for eating and dislike deviations from them.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.274489Z*


---


## Highlight 11

When I gave this man medication and cured him of his migraines, I also cured him of his mathematics, disrupting this strange weekly cycle of illness and misery followed by a transcendent sort of health and creativity.


*Highlighted: 2025-05-30T04:04:59.613228Z*


---


## Highlight 12

But I suppose it’s better not to be merely facile—the blocks, the feelings of paralysis, the time when language itself seems dead, these all help me in the end, I think, because when the “quickenings” do come they are all the more energetic by contrast.


*Highlighted: 2025-05-30T04:04:59.613195Z*


---


## Highlight 13

I felt that I was enjoying California too much, was getting addicted to an easy, sleazy life, to say nothing of a deepening drug addiction. I felt I needed to go to a hard, real place, a place where I could devote myself to work and perhaps discover or create a real identity, a voice of my own.


*Highlighted: 2025-05-30T04:04:59.613162Z*


---


## Highlight 14

I would continue to seek satisfaction in drugs, I felt, unless I had satisfying—and, hopefully, creative—work. It was crucial for me to find something with meaning, and this, for me, was seeing patients.


*Highlighted: 2025-05-30T04:04:59.613109Z*


---


## Highlight 15

“My income,” Thom wrote, “averages about half that of a local bus-driver or street sweeper, but it is of my own choosing, since I prefer leisure to working at a full-time job.”


*Highlighted: 2025-05-30T04:04:59.613072Z*


---


## Highlight 16

This drove home to me how barbaric our own medicine and our own customs are in the “civilized” world, where we put ill or demented people away and try to forget them.


*Highlighted: 2025-05-30T04:04:59.612981Z*


---


## Highlight 17

I found this dismaying, for I think in narrative and historical terms. As a chemistry-mad boy, I devoured books on the history of chemistry, the evolution of its ideas, and the lives of my favorite chemists. Chemistry had, for me, a historical and human dimension too.


*Highlighted: 2025-05-30T04:04:59.612950Z*


---


## Highlight 18

He felt strongly that perceptions were not just simple reproductions of sensory data from the eye or ear but had to be “constructed” by the brain, a construction involving the collaboration of many subsystems in the brain and constantly informed by memory, probability, and expectations.


*Highlighted: 2025-05-30T04:04:59.612920Z*


---


## Highlight 19

But her words haunted me for much of my life and played a major part in inhibiting and injecting with guilt what should have been a free and joyous expression of sexuality.


*Highlighted: 2025-05-30T04:04:59.612886Z*


---


## Highlight 20

Categorization is the central task of the brain, and reentrant signaling allows the brain to categorize its own categorizations, then recategorize these, and so on. Such a process is the beginning of an enormous upward path enabling ever higher levels of thought and consciousness.


*Highlighted: 2025-05-30T04:04:59.612838Z*


---

