# Book Highlights 39257956

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

In other words, with every future we wish to create, we must first learn to imagine it.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-02T04:05:12.151555Z*


---


## Highlight 2

With AI taking over significant aspects of education, basic costs will be lowered, which will allow more people to access education. It can truly equalize education by liberating course content and top teachers from the confines of elite institutions and delivering AI teachers that have near-zero marginal cost.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-02T04:05:12.151534Z*


---


## Highlight 3

Regardless of these theories, I believe it’s indisputable that computers simply “think” differently from our brains. The best way to increase computer intelligence is to develop general computational methods (like deep learning and GPT-3) that scale with more processing power and more data.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-02T04:05:12.151514Z*


---


## Highlight 4

Computer scientist John McCarthy coined the term “artificial intelligence” even earlier—at the legendary Dartmouth Summer Research Project on Artificial Intelligence in the summer of 1956.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-02T04:05:12.151495Z*


---


## Highlight 5

In 2020, AI solved a fifty-year-old riddle of biology called protein folding.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-02T04:05:12.151476Z*


---


## Highlight 6

Another solution proposed by AI expert Stuart Russell is to ensure that every objective function always be beneficial to humans, by finding a way for humans to be in the loop in the design of objective functions.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-02T04:05:12.151456Z*


---


## Highlight 7

Deep learning is a recent AI breakthrough. Among the many subfields of AI, machine learning is the field that has produced the most successful applications, and within machine learning, the biggest advance is “deep learning”—so much so that the terms “AI,” “machine learning,” and “deep learning” are sometimes used interchangeably (if imprecisely).


*Highlighted: 2025-08-02T04:05:12.151435Z*


---


## Highlight 8

While humans are limited in the number of things they can pay attention to at once, a deep-learning algorithm trained on an ocean of information will discover correlations between obscure features of the data that are too subtle or complex for we humans to comprehend, and which may not even be noticed.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-02T04:05:12.151413Z*


---


## Highlight 9

AI’s main advantage over humans lies in its ability to detect incredibly subtle patterns within large quantities of data.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-02T04:05:12.151388Z*


---


## Highlight 10

What’s important is that we develop useful applications suitable for AI and seek to find human-AI symbiosis, rather than obsess about whether or when deep-learning AI will become AGI. I consider the obsession with AGI to be a narcissistic human tendency to view ourselves as the gold standard.


*Highlighted: 2025-08-02T04:05:12.151308Z*


---


## Highlight 11

We humans have a good grasp on what we know and what we don’t know. GPT-3 does not. This flaw can cause it to generate this kind of “fake news.”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.200879Z*


---


## Highlight 12

To put it in technical terms, the core of the issue is the simplicity of the objective function, and the danger from single-mindedly optimizing a single objective function, which can lead to harmful externalities.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.200847Z*


---


## Highlight 13

Yuval Noah Harari has called science fiction “the most important artistic genre” of our time.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.200815Z*


---


## Highlight 14

From the modern submarine to the laser gun, and from mobile phones to CRISPR, scientists will readily admit they got direct inspirations from fiction. Imagination indeed shapes the world.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.200781Z*


---


## Highlight 15

AI is an omni-use technology that will penetrate virtually all industries. Its effects are being felt in four waves, beginning with Internet applications, followed by applications in business (e.g. financial services), perception (think smart cities), and autonomous applications, like vehicles.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.200748Z*


---


## Highlight 16

Lastly, humans will work symbiotically with AI, with AI performing quantitative analysis, optimization, and routine work, while we humans contribute our creativity, critical thinking, and passion.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.200715Z*


---


## Highlight 17

Compared to when I made my cold start in AI forty years ago, we now have about one trillion times more computing power available for AI experimentation, and storing the necessary data is fifteen million times cheaper.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.200681Z*


---


## Highlight 18

IT IS BETTER TO LIVE YOUR OWN DESTINY IMPERFECTLY THAN TO IMITATE SOMEBODY ELSE’S PERFECTLY.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.200647Z*


---


## Highlight 19

Deep learning is an omni-use technology, meaning it could be applied to almost any domain for recognition, prediction, classification, decision-making, or synthesis.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.200611Z*


---


## Highlight 20

According to Amara’s law, “We tend to overestimate the effect of a technology in the short run and underestimate the effect in the long run.”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.200559Z*


---

