# Book Highlights 39257959

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

“We turned off CNBC,” said Danny Moses. “It became very frustrating that they weren’t in touch with reality anymore. If something negative happened, they’d spin it positive. If something positive happened, they’d blow it out of proportion. It alters your mind. You can’t be clouded with shit like that.”


*Highlighted: 2026-04-11T04:14:55.865942Z*


---


## Highlight 2

Digging deeper, he called S&P and asked what happened to default rates if real estate prices fell. The man at S&P couldn’t say: Their model for home prices had no ability to accept a negative number. “They were just assuming home prices would keep going up,” says Eisman.


*Highlighted: 2026-04-11T04:14:55.865922Z*


---


## Highlight 3

“Steve’s fun to take to any Wall Street meeting,” said Vinny. “Because he’ll say ‘explain that to me’ thirty different times. Or ‘could you explain that more, in English?’ Because once you do that, there’s a few things you learn. For a start, you figure out if they even know what they’re talking about. And a lot of times they don’t!”


*Highlighted: 2026-04-11T04:14:55.865902Z*


---


## Highlight 4

That was the problem with money: What people did with it had consequences, but they were so remote from the original action that the mind never connected the one with the other.


*Highlighted: 2026-04-11T04:14:55.865881Z*


---


## Highlight 5

With stagnant wages and booming consumption, the cash-strapped American masses had a virtually unlimited demand for loans but an uncertain ability to repay them. All they had going for them, from the point of view of Wall Street financial engineers, was that their financial fates could be misconstrued as uncorrelated.


*Highlighted: 2026-04-11T04:14:55.865860Z*


---


## Highlight 6

The market might have learned a simple lesson: Don’t make loans to people who can’t repay them. Instead it learned a complicated one: You can keep on making these loans, just don’t keep them on your books.


*Highlighted: 2026-04-11T04:14:55.865839Z*


---


## Highlight 7

The model used by Wall Street to price trillions of dollars’ worth of derivatives thought of the financial world as an orderly, continuous process. But the world was not continuous; it changed discontinuously, and often by accident.


*Highlighted: 2026-04-11T04:14:55.865818Z*


---


## Highlight 8

Charlie Ledley—curiously uncertain Charlie Ledley—was odd in his belief that the best way to make money on Wall Street was to seek out whatever it was that Wall Street believed was least likely to happen, and bet on its happening.


*Highlighted: 2026-04-11T04:14:55.865797Z*


---


## Highlight 9

“What you want to watch are the lenders, not the borrowers,” he said. “The borrowers will always be willing to take a great deal for themselves. It’s up to the lenders to show restraint, and when they lose it, watch out.”


*Highlighted: 2026-04-11T04:14:55.865774Z*


---


## Highlight 10

Real risk was not volatility; real risk was stupid investment decisions.


*Highlighted: 2026-04-11T04:14:55.865733Z*


---


## Highlight 11

Writing a check separates a commitment from a conversation.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-09T04:05:24.467352Z*


---


## Highlight 12

The changes were camouflage. They helped to distract outsiders from the truly profane event: the growing misalignment of interests between the people who trafficked in financial risk and the wider culture. The surface rippled, but down below, in the depths, the bonus pool remained undisturbed.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-09T04:05:24.467332Z*


---


## Highlight 13

This was yet another consequence of turning Wall Street partnerships into public corporations: It turned them into objects of speculation. It was no longer the social and economic relevance of a bank that rendered it too big to fail, but the number of side bets that had been made upon it.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-09T04:05:24.467313Z*


---


## Highlight 14

Maybe the best definition of “investing” is “gambling with the odds in your favor.”


*Highlighted: 2025-07-09T04:05:24.467293Z*


---


## Highlight 15

The main effect of turning a partnership into a corporation was to transfer the financial risk to the shareholders.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-09T04:05:24.467272Z*


---


## Highlight 16

If you wanted to predict how people would behave, Munger said, you only had to look at their incentives.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-09T04:05:24.467253Z*


---


## Highlight 17

These people believed that the collapse of the subprime mortgage market was unlikely precisely because it would be such a catastrophe. Nothing so terrible could ever actually happen.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-09T04:05:24.467233Z*


---


## Highlight 18

The big Wall Street firms, seemingly so shrewd and self-interested, had somehow become the dumb money. The people who ran them did not understand their own businesses, and their regulators obviously knew even less.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-09T04:05:24.467212Z*


---


## Highlight 19

Financial markets are a collection of arguments. The less transparent the market and the more complicated the securities, the more money the trading desks at big Wall Street firms can make from the argument.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-09T04:05:24.467187Z*


---


## Highlight 20

“I hated discussing ideas with investors,” he said, “because I then become a Defender of the Idea, and that influences your thought process.” Once you became an idea’s defender you had a harder time changing your mind about it.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-09T04:05:24.467152Z*


---

