# Book Highlights 39257948

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

How do you cause people to believe in an imagined order such as Christianity, democracy or capitalism? First, you never admit that the order is imagined. You always insist that the order sustaining society is an objective reality created by the great gods or by the laws of nature.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-22T04:16:07.305283Z*


---


## Highlight 2

As Nietzsche put it, if you have a why to live, you can bear almost any how. A meaningful life can be extremely satisfying even in the midst of hardship, whereas a meaningless life is a terrible ordeal no matter how comfortable it is.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-22T04:16:07.305228Z*


---


## Highlight 3

What potential did Europe develop in the early modern period that enabled it to dominate the late modern world? There are two complementary answers to this question: modern science and capitalism.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-22T04:16:07.305196Z*


---


## Highlight 4

Money is based on two universal principles: a. Universal convertibility: with money as an alchemist, you can turn land into loyalty, justice into health, and violence into knowledge. Universal trust: with money as a go-between, any two people can cooperate on any project.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-22T04:16:07.305177Z*


---


## Highlight 5

Hierarchies serve an important function. They enable complete strangers to know how to treat one another without wasting the time and energy needed to become personally acquainted.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-22T04:16:07.305157Z*


---


## Highlight 6

Telling effective stories is not easy. The difficulty lies not in telling the story, but in convincing everyone else to believe it. Much of history revolves around this question: how does one convince millions of people to believe particular stories about gods, or nations, or limited liability companies? Yet when it succeeds, it gives Sapiens immense power, because it enables millions of strangers to cooperate and work towards common goals.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-22T04:16:07.305137Z*


---


## Highlight 7

The most important thing to know about prehistoric humans is that they were insignificant animals with no more impact on their environment than gorillas, fireflies or jellyfish.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-22T04:16:07.305115Z*


---


## Highlight 8

If happiness is determined by expectations, then two pillars of our society – mass media and the advertising industry – may unwittingly be depleting the globe’s reservoirs of contentment.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-22T04:16:07.305094Z*


---


## Highlight 9

Romanticism tells us that in order to make the most of our human potential we must have as many different experiences as we can.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-22T04:16:07.305061Z*


---


## Highlight 10

We believe in a particular order not because it is objectively true, but because believing in it enables us to cooperate effectively and forge a better society.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-22T04:16:07.305005Z*


---


## Highlight 11

The problem at the root of such calamities is that humans evolved for millions of years in small bands of a few dozen individuals. The handful of millennia separating the Agricultural Revolution from the appearance of cities, kingdoms and empires was not enough time to allow an instinct for mass cooperation to evolve.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-03T04:05:12.647369Z*


---


## Highlight 12

Christians and Muslims who could not agree on religious beliefs could nevertheless agree on a monetary belief, because whereas religion asks us to believe in something, money asks us to believe that other people believe in something.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-03T04:05:12.647337Z*


---


## Highlight 13

Religion can thus be defined as a system of human norms and values that is founded on a belief in a superhuman order.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-03T04:05:12.647305Z*


---


## Highlight 14

He encapsulated his teachings in a single law: suffering arises from craving; the only way to be fully liberated from suffering is to be fully liberated from craving; and the only way to be liberated from craving is to train the mind to experience reality as it is.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-03T04:05:12.647273Z*


---


## Highlight 15

There is no way out of the imagined order. When we break down our prison walls and run towards freedom, we are in fact running into the more spacious exercise yard of a bigger prison.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-03T04:05:12.647240Z*


---


## Highlight 16

The heated debates about Homo sapiens’ ‘natural way of life’ miss the main point. Ever since the Cognitive Revolution, there hasn’t been a single natural way of life for Sapiens. There are only cultural choices, from among a bewildering palette of possibilities.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-03T04:05:12.647208Z*


---


## Highlight 17

Money is accordingly a system of mutual trust, and not just any system of mutual trust: money is the most universal and most efficient system of mutual trust ever devised.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-03T04:05:12.647177Z*


---


## Highlight 18

The human collective knows far more today than did the ancient bands. But at the individual level, ancient foragers were the most knowledgeable and skilful people in history.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-03T04:05:12.647145Z*


---


## Highlight 19

Sapiens can cooperate in extremely flexible ways with countless numbers of strangers. That’s why Sapiens rule the world, whereas ants eat our leftovers and chimps are locked up in zoos and research laboratories.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-03T04:05:12.647109Z*


---


## Highlight 20

The most important impact of script on human history is precisely this: it has gradually changed the way humans think and view the world. Free association and holistic thought have given way to compartmentalisation and bureaucracy.


*Highlighted: 2025-07-03T04:05:12.647052Z*


---

