# Book Highlights 39257979

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 10
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

“Democracy requires active participation, and sooner or later someone ‘offers’ to take all the difficult decision-making away from you and your hectic life. But the darknet throws those decisions back onto you. It hard-codes democracy into the DNA of civilization. You upvote and downvote many times a day on things that directly affect your life and the lives of people around you—not just once every few years on things you haven’t got a chance in hell of affecting.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.794815Z*


---


## Highlight 2

“Factions have a slang term for the general public. They call them NPCs—as in ‘non-player-characters’—scripted bots with limited responses.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.794782Z*


---


## Highlight 3

Wealth aggregates and becomes political power. Simple as that. ‘Corporation’ is just the most recent name for it. In the Middle Ages it was the Catholic Church. They had a great logo, too. You might have seen it, and they had more branches than Starbucks. Go back before that, and it was Imperial Rome. It’s a natural process as old as humanity.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.794748Z*


---


## Highlight 4

It was a facet of the modern world that the most important events now occurred unseen by human eyes. They were electronic bits being flipped from one value to another.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.794713Z*


---


## Highlight 5

“Fact and fiction carry the same intrinsic weight in the marketplace of ideas. Fortunately, reality has no advertising budget.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.794682Z*


---


## Highlight 6

When the survival strategy of a civilization is invalidated, in all of human history none have ever turned back from the brink. When presented with disruptive change, without exception they perish.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.794646Z*


---


## Highlight 7

“Instead of adapting, their leaders clung to power and strove instead to be the last ones to starve to death. The Mayan civilization in South America did the same, and I expect our own civilization will do likewise. The people behind the modern global economy will prevent any meaningful change until it’s too late.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.794601Z*


---


## Highlight 8

“Freedom is overrated. You can be completely free and starving in an igloo in Antarctica. Business is what makes people’s lives better, not democracy. The world is filled with dysfunctional democracies, paralyzed by idiots with votes.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.794570Z*


---


## Highlight 9

Loki began to realize the power of myth. It was the power of common belief. Sobol understood it, and yet he chose to become a devil, and here as if part of the natural order, a mythic hero arose in the network—dead but more alive than ever.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.794543Z*


---


## Highlight 10

“My generation has no intention of living as serfs on a corporate manor, Dad. When people became more reliant on multinational corporations than on their own communities, they surrendered whatever say they had in their government. Corporations are growing stronger while democratic government becomes increasingly helpless.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.794504Z*


---

