# Book Highlights 39257953

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

The key to true curiosity is pausing to ponder the causes.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-18T04:05:21.478878Z*


---


## Highlight 2

RNA (ribonucleic acid) is a molecule in living cells that is similar to DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), but it has one more oxygen atom in its sugar-phosphate backbone and a difference in one of its four bases.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-18T04:05:21.478859Z*


---


## Highlight 3

The modern foundations for each of these perspectives was expressed in two influential books written fifty years ago: John Rawls’s A Theory of Justice, which comes down on the side of favoring the good of the community, and Robert Nozick’s Anarchy, State, and Utopia, which emphasizes the moral foundation for individual liberty.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-18T04:05:21.478841Z*


---


## Highlight 4

From an evolutionary perspective, both the simplest coronavirus and the most complex human are essentially protein-wrapped packages that contain and seek to replicate the genetic material encoded by their nucleic acids.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-18T04:05:21.478822Z*


---


## Highlight 5

The key aspect of his intellect, she realized, was his ability to make unexpected connections between different fields.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-18T04:05:21.478802Z*


---


## Highlight 6

The scientist does not study nature because it is useful. He studies it because he takes pleasure in it, and he takes pleasure in it because it is beautiful.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-18T04:05:21.478782Z*


---


## Highlight 7

I once asked Steve Jobs what his best product was, thinking he would say the Macintosh or iPhone. Instead he said that creating great products is important, but what’s even more important is creating a team that can continually make such products.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-18T04:05:21.478763Z*


---


## Highlight 8

In November 2018, a young Chinese scientist who had been to some of Doudna’s gene-editing conferences used CRISPR to edit embryos and remove a gene that produces a receptor for HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. It led to the birth of twin girls, the world’s first “designer babies.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-18T04:05:21.478741Z*


---


## Highlight 9

Many creative people—including most of those I have chronicled, such as Leonardo da Vinci, Albert Einstein, Henry Kissinger, and Steve Jobs—grew up feeling alienated from their surroundings.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-18T04:05:21.478710Z*


---


## Highlight 10

Szostak had a guiding principle: Never do something that a thousand other people are doing.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-18T04:05:21.478663Z*


---


## Highlight 11

CRISPR, for “clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats.”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.047854Z*


---


## Highlight 12

Her work also illustrates, as Leonardo da Vinci’s did, that the key to innovation is connecting a curiosity about basic science to the practical work of devising tools that can be applied to our lives—moving discoveries from lab bench to bedside.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.047815Z*


---


## Highlight 13

Now we have entered a third and even more momentous era, a life-science revolution. Children who study digital coding will be joined by those who study genetic code.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.047777Z*


---


## Highlight 14

Enzymes are a type of protein. Their main function is to act as a catalyst that sparks chemical reactions in the cells of living organisms, from bacteria to humans. There are more than five thousand biochemical reactions that are catalyzed by enzymes. These include breaking down starches and proteins in the digestive system, causing muscles to contract, sending signals between cells, regulating metabolism, and (most important for this discussion) cutting and splicing DNA and RNA.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.047741Z*


---


## Highlight 15

It turns out that tracrRNA performs two important tasks. First, it facilitates the making of the crRNA, the sequence that carries the memory of a virus that previously attacked the bacteria. Then it serves as a handle to latch on to the invading virus so that the crRNA can target the right spot for the Cas9 enzyme to chop.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.047701Z*


---


## Highlight 16

The easiest of these viruses to study are the ones that attack bacteria, and they were dubbed (remember the term, for it will reappear when we discuss the discovery of CRISPR) “phages,” which was short for “bacteriophages,” meaning bacteria-eaters.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.047665Z*


---


## Highlight 17

RNA interference operates by deploying an enzyme known as “Dicer.” Dicer snips a long piece of RNA into short fragments. These little fragments can then embark on a search-and-destroy mission: they seek out a messenger RNA molecule that has matching letters, then they use a scissors-like enzyme to chop it up. The genetic information carried by that messenger RNA is thus silenced.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.047627Z*


---


## Highlight 18

The gene-editing tool that Doudna and others developed in 2012 is based on a virus-fighting trick used by bacteria, which have been battling viruses for more than a billion years. In their DNA, bacteria develop clustered repeated sequences, known as CRISPRs, that can remember and then destroy viruses that attack them.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.047591Z*


---


## Highlight 19

Darwin and Wallace had a key trait that is a catalyst for creativity: they had wide-ranging interests and were able to make connections between different disciplines.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.047552Z*


---


## Highlight 20

The invention of CRISPR and the plague of COVID will hasten our transition to the third great revolution of modern times. These revolutions arose from the discovery, beginning just over a century ago, of the three fundamental kernels of our existence: the atom, the bit, and the gene.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.047496Z*


---

