# Book Highlights 39257977

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

“We don’t have a single big advantage,” he once told an old adversary, publisher Tim O’Reilly, back when they were arguing over Amazon protecting its patented 1-Click ordering method from rivals like Barnes & Noble. “So we have to weave a rope of many small advantages.”


*Highlighted: 2025-11-03T04:05:35.154142Z*


---


## Highlight 2

And if the potential employees made the mistake of talking about wanting a harmonious balance between work and home life, Bezos rejected them.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-03T04:05:35.154057Z*


---


## Highlight 3

Think Big Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Leaders create and communicate a bold direction that inspires results. They think differently and look around corners for ways to serve customers.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-03T04:05:35.154028Z*


---


## Highlight 4

After the interviews, everyone who had participated in the hiring process gathered and expressed one of four opinions about each individual: strong no hire; inclined not to hire; inclined to hire; or strong hire. One holdout could sink an applicant.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-03T04:05:35.153998Z*


---


## Highlight 5

He gave Blue Origin a coat of arms and a Latin motto, Gradatim Ferociter, which translates to “Step by Step, Ferociously.” The phrase accurately captures Amazon’s guiding philosophy as well. Steady progress toward seemingly impossible goals will win the day. Setbacks are temporary. Naysayers are best ignored.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-03T04:05:35.153968Z*


---


## Highlight 6

“The second thing is that he is not tethered by conventional thinking. What is amazing to me is that he is bound only by the laws of physics. He can’t change those. Everything else he views as open to discussion.”


*Highlighted: 2025-11-03T04:05:35.153938Z*


---


## Highlight 7

When you are eighty years old, and in a quiet moment of reflection narrating for only yourself the most personal version of your life story, the telling that will be most compact and meaningful will be the series of choices you have made. In the end, we are our choices.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-03T04:05:35.153908Z*


---


## Highlight 8

“There are two kinds of retailers: there are those folks who work to figure how to charge more, and there are companies that work to figure how to charge less, and we are going to be the second, full-stop,”


*Highlighted: 2025-11-03T04:05:35.153878Z*


---


## Highlight 9

The Innovator’s Dilemma, by Harvard professor Clayton Christensen. Christensen wrote that great companies fail not because they want to avoid disruptive change but because they are reluctant to embrace promising new markets that might undermine their traditional businesses and that do not appear to satisfy their short-term growth requirements.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-03T04:05:35.153846Z*


---


## Highlight 10

There is so much stuff that has yet to be invented. There’s so much new that’s going to happen. People don’t have any idea yet how impactful the Internet is going to be and that this is still Day 1 in such a big way.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-03T04:05:35.153792Z*


---


## Highlight 11

“Jeff, one day you’ll understand that it’s harder to be kind than clever.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.700630Z*


---


## Highlight 12

Bezos believed that high margins justified rivals’ investments in research and development and attracted more competition, while low margins attracted customers and were more defensible.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.700604Z*


---


## Highlight 13

“If you’re not good, Jeff will chew you up and spit you out. And if you’re good, he will jump on your back and ride you into the ground.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.700578Z*


---


## Highlight 14

Frugality We try not to spend money on things that don’t matter to customers. Frugality breeds resourcefulness, self-sufficiency and invention. There are no extra points for headcount, budget size or fixed expense.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.700551Z*


---


## Highlight 15

The narrative fallacy, Bezos explained, was a term coined by Nassim Nicholas Taleb in his 2007 book The Black Swan to describe how humans are biologically inclined to turn complex realities into soothing but oversimplified stories.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.700525Z*


---


## Highlight 16

It is the ambition of every technology company to be worth more than the sum of its parts. It inevitably seeks to offer a set of tools that other companies can use to reach their customers. It wants to become, in the parlance of the industry, a platform.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.700498Z*


---


## Highlight 17

Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit Leaders are obligated to respectfully challenge decisions when they disagree, even when doing so is uncomfortable or exhausting. Leaders have conviction and are tenacious. They do not compromise for the sake of social cohesion. Once a decision is determined, they commit wholly.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.700470Z*


---


## Highlight 18

As part of his ongoing quest for a better allocation of his own time, he decreed that he would no longer have one-on-one meetings with his subordinates. These meetings tended to be filled with trivial updates and political distractions, rather than problem solving and brainstorming. Even today, Bezos rarely meets alone with an individual colleague.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.700443Z*


---


## Highlight 19

“Communication is a sign of dysfunction. It means people aren’t working together in a close, organic way. We should be trying to figure out a way for teams to communicate less with each other, not more.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.700414Z*


---


## Highlight 20

They agreed on five core values and wrote them down on a whiteboard in a conference room: customer obsession, frugality, bias for action, ownership, and high bar for talent. Later Amazon would add a sixth value, innovation.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.700373Z*


---

