# Book Highlights 39257980

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

You world policemen want to declare everything illegal, but in the final analysis people will use every tool at their disposal to obtain advantage. You can’t legislate morality.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-03T04:05:19.344376Z*


---


## Highlight 2

“Shorthand for ‘clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats,’ CRISPR derives from a naturally occurring process in bacterial immune systems—and it has been adapted by modern science to permit targeted genetic edits of plant, animal, and human embryos.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-03T04:05:19.344348Z*


---


## Highlight 3

Synthetic biology was the transistor of the twenty-first century. Yet political realities in America made it increasingly unfeasible for entrepreneurs there to tinker with the building blocks of life. Every cluster of human cells was viewed as a baby in America. A quarter of the population wasn’t vaccinated. A majority of Americans didn’t believe in evolution. Social-media-powered opinions carried more influence than peer-reviewed scientific research. In this virulently anti-science atmosphere, synbio research was hounded offshore before it had really begun. Activists crowed over their victory.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-03T04:05:19.344319Z*


---


## Highlight 4

Cryptocurrency providers had concluded in the early 2020s that it was better to sell blockchain software solutions to central banks than to enter the heavily regulated banking industry on their own.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-03T04:05:19.344291Z*


---


## Highlight 5

Silicon Valley’s forte—circuitry and software—had become cheap global commodities, created everywhere. Network-centric economic disruption was largely complete. Every nook and cranny of modern life had already been disintermediated. The gig economy and time-share rentals had cannibalized the US consumer base, low-bidding the middle class out of existence.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-03T04:05:19.344263Z*


---


## Highlight 6

“Why do you say ‘please’ to these things?” “Because it’s polite, that’s why.” “They sell that information to advertisers.” “They sell the fact that I’m polite to machines?” “They sell the fact that you’re susceptible to technical animism.” “So what if I am?” “Tell me that after your machines start to sound wounded if you don’t buy something.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-03T04:05:19.344234Z*


---


## Highlight 7

“You forget what the Huli jing is doing, Mr. Durand. Anonymity is what they’re selling. True anonymity. A post-identity world. A cleansing of earthly sins. There are no fingerprints or iris scans or even DNA scans that can identify their clients. There is only money and desire.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-03T04:05:19.344203Z*


---


## Highlight 8

Light field projectors like these had largely replaced physical televisions, computer screens, and mobile OLED displays in the last decade or so. Beaming imagery directly onto a viewer’s retinas instead of spraying photons all over the place had many advantages—authentic augmented reality being one. Environmental sustainability another. Privacy another still.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-03T04:05:19.344173Z*


---


## Highlight 9

He realized for the first time that his own life was more important to him than the lives of others. It was a truth that he’d never had to face before—one every rational person wanted to avoid. Deathless meat was the ultimate expression of that reluctance.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-03T04:05:19.344140Z*


---


## Highlight 10

Nature did not select for empathy and social bonds because Nature was kind—but because those were survival advantages. Completely selfish, unfeeling people don’t care for the greater good. They don’t appreciate goals beyond themselves. And that limits them.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-03T04:05:19.344093Z*


---


## Highlight 11

“Craving leads to disappointment and sorrow. This we call dukkha. It is one of the two characteristics of sankhara—‘conditioned phenomena’ through which we perceive the physical world.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.852043Z*


---


## Highlight 12

“DNA is DNA. Merely information. Which means that human beings are merely information. And there is a long-established legal precedent that information can be owned.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.852017Z*


---


## Highlight 13

Life itself had become the next systems architecture. And it was hard to argue with its accumulated uptime.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.851991Z*


---


## Highlight 14

“Theravada Buddhism follows the Pāli Canon—a collection of the oldest Buddhist texts. They teach us that life has but three characteristics, the first of which is anicca—impermanence. All conditioned phenomena are subject to change: physical characteristics, assumptions, theories, knowledge. Nothing is permanent because all things are bound together, recursively, and as one changes, so, too, do the others. It is the longing to stop this change that causes the second characteristic—dukkha. Suffering.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.851965Z*


---


## Highlight 15

“Anatta—the third characteristic of life. The not-self. There is no permanent atta—or self. From the moment we begin, all entities—including living beings—are subject to a process of continuous change.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.851938Z*


---


## Highlight 16

Balanced ecosystems grow from the bottom up over time, not from the top down all at once. We don’t design complex systems; we evolve them. It’s what Nature does. And Nature is the best teacher.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.851911Z*


---


## Highlight 17

Societies that incorporated these advances moved on. Those that could not did not. Instead, they languished in the debt, political paralysis, and recriminations of the previous age.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.851881Z*


---


## Highlight 18

Specialized knowledge was the way you became an expat instead of a refugee.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.851855Z*


---


## Highlight 19

It was difficult to pinpoint the year Singapore became the technology capital of the world. Economists usually placed that somewhere between ratification of the UN Treaty on Genetic Modification and the second wave of moon landings. But certainly by the dawn of the Gene Revolution, the technological crown had shifted from America.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.851828Z*


---


## Highlight 20

“You know what they say: when privacy is criminalized, only criminals will have privacy.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.851787Z*


---

