# Book Highlights 39257961

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 30
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

Success in areas such as career development, innovation, entrepreneurship, creativity, problem solving, and business growth—and also personal growth—often depends on exactly that: the ability to challenge assumptions, reshape the environment, and play by a different set of rules … your own.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-04T04:16:35.851652Z*


---


## Highlight 2

“Then … it does not really exist?” asked Max. “For anyone?” “It does. For most mice, it does. They define themselves—their very existence—in reference to the maze. You have said it many times yourself—you have described them as mice in the maze. That statement isn’t false, but it is dangerously misleading.”


*Highlighted: 2026-02-04T04:16:35.851633Z*


---


## Highlight 3

The maze was big. But it was not big enough. The maze was a way of life. But it was not his way of life. The maze was all he had ever known. But it was not all he could imagine.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-04T04:16:35.851615Z*


---


## Highlight 4

It is designed. Its design suits the needs and interests of those who are in control. These people are the ones who give shape to our maze. They create our rules and provide our rewards and punishments. They can do this because we love cheese more than anything else.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-04T04:16:35.851595Z*


---


## Highlight 5

Max was determined to discover who had moved the cheese. He was determined to discover why they had moved it. He was determined to discover why the maze was the way it was. And he was determined to change what he did not like about the maze.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-04T04:16:35.851573Z*


---


## Highlight 6

In other words, effective adaptation is not enough for success or happiness.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-04T04:16:35.851494Z*


---


## Highlight 7

Sadly, many students will spend a few years—and some a lifetime—pursuing dreams that are not their own.


*Highlighted: 2026-02-04T04:16:35.851474Z*


---


## Highlight 8

“I concluded that the only way out … was ‘up.’


*Highlighted: 2026-02-04T04:16:35.851455Z*


---


## Highlight 9

“You had a thought. And that thought directed actions that gave physical shape to your thought—to your vision. It is the same with me. I did what I thought I could do. I did what I decided was the way it had to be. I do not think about the maze, or its walls, the way most others do. You and I have that in common.”


*Highlighted: 2026-02-04T04:16:35.851432Z*


---


## Highlight 10

“Have you ever thought about why change is inevitable? Have you ever wondered why the maze is the way it is—what purpose it serves? Have you ever thought to ask why mice spend their entire lives in search of cheese? Have you ever wondered, upon finding it missing, who moved my cheese?”


*Highlighted: 2026-02-04T04:16:35.851396Z*


---


## Highlight 11

WMMC is a compelling read. The book is a useful reminder that we need to accept that change happens, that it may be beyond our control, and that we need to find the strength to move on and adapt.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-02T04:05:02.803839Z*


---


## Highlight 12

The voice was powerful, confident, and dispassionate—almost indifferent. But the words were spoken deliberately.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-02T04:05:02.803820Z*


---


## Highlight 13

“So what, essentially, is the reason for your accomplishment?” “My decision. My resolve. My thought. The thought that I would escape.”


*Highlighted: 2025-11-02T04:05:02.803800Z*


---


## Highlight 14

I came to understand the why, but I was unwilling to accept it. “So I decided to do something about it.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-02T04:05:02.803781Z*


---


## Highlight 15

His daily workout involved enough running through the maze that he invariably ran into new piles of cheese every few hours.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-02T04:05:02.803762Z*


---


## Highlight 16

This is the explanation, for all of it: there is no physical continuity anywhere, and everything stems from the insistence of the mind.”


*Highlighted: 2025-11-02T04:05:02.803742Z*


---


## Highlight 17

“But the answer is not what you might think, Zed—because things are different now … I changed them. “My answer to the mouse will be this: I moved your cheese.”


*Highlighted: 2025-11-02T04:05:02.803723Z*


---


## Highlight 18

Max, Zed, and Big. As we watch their lives unfold and intersect, we discover that instead of just reacting to change and chasing the cheese, each of us has the ability to escape the maze or even reconfigure the maze to our liking.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-02T04:05:02.803702Z*


---


## Highlight 19

Try as I may to help other mice, the result is still a maze that is based on my preferences and that serves my purpose—not theirs. The mice in the maze are no freer today than they were before! The new maze is better than the old maze, but the mice are still subject to the rules of others.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-02T04:05:02.803681Z*


---


## Highlight 20

And yet it can also be helpful to hear how others interpreted the story and what insights they drew from it. They may have focused on something you missed; you may have deciphered a certain lesson that they, too, would benefit from considering. The other lists of questions were motivated by these considerations.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-02T04:05:02.803641Z*


---


## Highlight 21

I challenged assumptions. I broke rules. I ignored constraints. I refused to believe that anything was a given. The result was inevitable. The maze ceased to exist.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-30T04:07:24.352466Z*


---


## Highlight 22

“Cheese,” answered the young mouse. “The answer to all of your questions is cheese. That is what I have learned is important. It is what all of us have been taught to focus on. It is what we spend our time chasing. All we can control is how fast we run in search of cheese. The best among us are efficient at finding cheese. Our effectiveness—the standard by which we measure success—is just that: How much cheese do we have?”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-30T04:07:24.352446Z*


---


## Highlight 23

“I moved the cheese for all sorts of mice in the maze—and I influenced them. By moving their cheese, I changed how they thought, what they felt, which direction they traveled, and what they believed.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-30T04:07:24.352427Z*


---


## Highlight 24

They revered him because his mere presence—his manner of being—inspired them to be great. They feared him because he was living proof that someone who seemed to challenge their every belief about what was important could still be happy—and in fact, could be happier than any other mouse in the maze.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-30T04:07:24.352406Z*


---


## Highlight 25

“Tell me—what have you learned is important? What have you been taught to focus on? What goal does the good book suggest you spend your time pursuing? What are you efficient at achieving? Your effectiveness is measured by what standard?”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-30T04:07:24.352384Z*


---


## Highlight 26

For mice who have accepted their maze as a given—as a prison—there is no decision but to react to the designs of others. But for those who refuse to accept the maze as a given, who will challenge its design, there is another possibility: the decision to act.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-30T04:07:24.352365Z*


---


## Highlight 27

Big stepped through the hole he had created and walked out of the maze. He would never return to it. The maze was, once again, irrelevant. Some pursuits are simply too important. Some lives are not so easily contained. Some mice are big.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-30T04:07:24.352344Z*


---


## Highlight 28

The book made it clear: Change happens. You can sit there and complain about it, or you can change with the times. Do not fear change. Accept change. What happens in the maze is beyond your control. What you can control is your reaction.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-30T04:07:24.352322Z*


---


## Highlight 29

“There are other ‘beings’ out there. They are like mice, but bigger. They are smarter than most mice but not as smart as some. They are called people. Some of these people created the maze, and it exists for their pleasure and profit—for their purposes.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-30T04:07:24.352297Z*


---


## Highlight 30

“You, Zed, are asking them to be. But they have learned only to do.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-30T04:07:24.352256Z*


---

