# Book Highlights 39257947

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 10
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

Thus, the definition of “manager” should be broadened: individual contributors who gather and disseminate know-how and information should also be seen as middle managers, because they exert great power within the organization.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-04T04:16:34.451673Z*


---


## Highlight 2

To use your calendar as a production-planning tool, you must accept responsibility for two things: 1. You should move toward the active use of your calendar, taking the initiative to fill the holes between the time-critical events with non-time-critical though necessary activities. You should say “no” at the outset to work beyond your capacity to handle.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-04T04:16:34.451642Z*


---


## Highlight 3

Keep in mind that a meeting called to make a specific decision is hard to keep moving if more than six or seven people attend. Eight people should be the absolute cutoff. Decision-making is not a spectator sport, because onlookers get in the way of what needs to be done.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-04T04:16:34.451613Z*


---


## Highlight 4

“CEOs always act on leading indicators of good news, but only act on lagging indicators of bad news.”


*Highlighted: 2026-03-04T04:16:34.451582Z*


---


## Highlight 5

The second criterion for a good indicator is that what you measure should be a physical, countable thing.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-04T04:16:34.451553Z*


---


## Highlight 6

The single most important task of a manager is to elicit peak performance from his subordinates. So if two things limit high output, a manager has two ways to tackle the issue: through training and motivation.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-04T04:16:34.451523Z*


---


## Highlight 7

The key idea is that we construct our production flow by starting with the longest (or most difficult, or most sensitive, or most expensive) step and work our way back.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-04T04:16:34.451485Z*


---


## Highlight 8

The first thing we must do is to pin down the step in the flow that will determine the overall shape of our operation, which we’ll call the limiting step.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-04T04:16:34.451446Z*


---


## Highlight 9

The point is to impose a pattern on the way a manager copes with problems. To make something regular that was once irregular is a fundamental production principle, and that’s how you should try to handle the interruptions that plague you.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-04T04:16:34.451412Z*


---


## Highlight 10

Managerial meddling is also an example of negative leverage. This occurs when a supervisor uses his superior knowledge and experience of a subordinate’s responsibilities to assume command of a situation rather than letting the subordinate work things through himself.


*Highlighted: 2026-03-04T04:16:34.451363Z*


---

