# Book Highlights 39257982

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 30
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

“There is a fundamental problem with regulators. If a regulator agrees to change a rule and something bad happens, they could easily lose their career. Whereas if they change a rule and something good happens, they don’t even get a reward. So, it’s very asymmetric. It’s then very easy to understand why regulators resist changing the rules. It’s because there’s a big punishment on one side and no reward on the other. How would any rational person behave in such a scenario?”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-02T04:14:42.746262Z*


---


## Highlight 2

“Elon has always been optimistic,” Brogan said. “That’s the nice word. He can be a downright liar about when things need to get done. He will pick the most aggressive time schedule imaginable assuming everything goes right, and then accelerate it by assuming that everyone can work harder.”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-02T04:14:42.746242Z*


---


## Highlight 3

What Musk had done that the rival automakers missed or didn’t have the means to combat was turn Tesla into a lifestyle. It did not just sell someone a car. It sold them an image, a feeling they were tapping into the future, a relationship.


*Highlighted: 2025-12-02T04:14:42.746223Z*


---


## Highlight 4

To the extent that the world still doubts Elon, I think it’s a reflection on the insanity of the world and not on the supposed insanity of Elon.”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-02T04:14:42.746204Z*


---


## Highlight 5

“My mentality is that of a samurai. I would rather commit seppuku than fail.”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-02T04:14:42.746184Z*


---


## Highlight 6

Musk also began to hone his trademark style of entering an ultracomplex business and not letting the fact that he knew very little about the industry’s nuances bother him in the slightest.


*Highlighted: 2025-12-02T04:14:42.746165Z*


---


## Highlight 7

This left Musk searching for an industry that had tons of money and inefficiencies that he and the Internet could exploit. Musk began thinking back to his time as an intern at the Bank of Nova Scotia. His big takeaway from that job, that bankers are rich and dumb, now had the feel of a massive opportunity.


*Highlighted: 2025-12-02T04:14:42.746145Z*


---


## Highlight 8

“South Africa was not a happy-go-lucky place, and that has an impact on you. We saw some really rough stuff. It was part of an atypical upbringing—just this insane set of experiences that changes how you view risk. You don’t grow up thinking getting a job is the hard part. That’s not interesting enough.”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-02T04:14:42.746122Z*


---


## Highlight 9

“I came very close to dying,” Musk said. “That’s my lesson for taking a vacation: vacations will kill you.”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-02T04:14:42.746100Z*


---


## Highlight 10

‘The longer you wait to fire someone the longer it has been since you should have fired them,’”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-02T04:14:42.746064Z*


---


## Highlight 11

Both companies were designed with this vision of motivating a critical mass of talented people to work on inspiring things.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-25T04:05:09.451807Z*


---


## Highlight 12

“Money is low bandwidth,” he said, during a speech at Stanford University in 2003, to describe his thinking. “You don’t need some sort of big infrastructure improvement to do things with it. It’s really just an entry in a database.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-25T04:05:09.451787Z*


---


## Highlight 13

“I had friends who complained that their husbands came home at seven or eight,” she said. “Elon would come home at eleven and work some more. People didn’t always get the sacrifice he made in order to be where he was.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-25T04:05:09.451766Z*


---


## Highlight 14

What Musk has developed that so many of the entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley lack is a meaningful worldview. He’s the possessed genius on the grandest quest anyone has ever concocted. He’s less a CEO chasing riches than a general marshaling troops to secure victory. Where Mark Zuckerberg wants to help you share baby photos, Musk wants to . save the human race from self-imposed or accidental annihilation.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-25T04:05:09.451702Z*


---


## Highlight 15

The guiding principle at SpaceX is to embrace your work and get stuff done. People who await guidance or detailed instructions languish. The same goes for workers who crave feedback. And the absolute worst thing that someone can do is inform Musk that what he’s asking is impossible.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-25T04:05:09.451683Z*


---


## Highlight 16

“He doesn’t say, ‘You have to do this by Friday at two P.M.,’” Brogan said. “He says, ‘I need the impossible done by Friday at two P.M. Can you do it?’ Then, when you say yes, you are not working hard because he told you to. You’re working hard for yourself. It’s a distinction you can feel. You have signed up to do your own work.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-25T04:05:09.451663Z*


---


## Highlight 17

“I may have been optimistic with respect to the timing on some of these things, but I didn’t over-promise on the outcome,” Musk told me during an interview after the Model S launch. “I have done everything I said I was going to do.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-25T04:05:09.451642Z*


---


## Highlight 18

“You don’t get to where Elon is now by always being a nice guy, and he was just so driven and sure of himself.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-25T04:05:09.451621Z*


---


## Highlight 19

“He does what he wants, and he is relentless about it. It’s Elon’s world, and the rest of us live in it.”


*Highlighted: 2025-06-25T04:05:09.451599Z*


---


## Highlight 20

What separated Tesla from the competition was the willingness to charge after its vision without compromise, a complete commitment to execute to Musk’s standards.


*Highlighted: 2025-06-25T04:05:09.451561Z*


---


## Highlight 21

What Musk would not tolerate were excuses or the lack of a clear plan of attack.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.984316Z*


---


## Highlight 22

“The best minds of my generation are thinking about how to make people click ads,” Jeff Hammerbacher, an early Facebook engineer, told me. “That sucks.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.984288Z*


---


## Highlight 23

One of my favorite things about Elon is his ability to make enormous decisions very quickly. That is still how it works today.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.984262Z*


---


## Highlight 24

One thing that Musk holds in the highest regard is resolve, and he respects people who continue on after being told no.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.984237Z*


---


## Highlight 25

“Elon came to the conclusion early in his career that life is short,” Straubel said. “If you really embrace this, it leaves you with the obvious conclusion that you should be working as hard as you can.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.984210Z*


---


## Highlight 26

He would place this urgency that he expected the revenue in ten years to be ten million dollars a day and that every day we were slower to achieve our goals was a day of missing out on that money.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.984182Z*


---


## Highlight 27

Outside of his studies, Elon would read the newspaper alongside Kimbal, and the two of them would identify interesting people they would like to meet. They then took turns cold-calling these people to ask if they were available to have lunch.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.984154Z*


---


## Highlight 28

“When Elon gets into something, he develops just this different level of interest in it than other people. That is what differentiates Elon from the rest of humanity.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.984126Z*


---


## Highlight 29

Throughout these early years, the engineers credited Eberhard with making quick, crisp decisions. Rarely did Tesla get hung up overanalyzing a situation. The company would pick a plan of attack, and when it failed at something, it failed fast and then tried a new approach.


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.984098Z*


---


## Highlight 30

“I think there are probably too many smart people pursuing Internet stuff, finance, and law,” Musk said on the way. “That is part of the reason why we haven’t seen as much innovation.”


*Highlighted: 2024-04-02T17:58:18.984060Z*


---

