# Book Highlights 39257957

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 10
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

What kind of parent is most likely to give a child such a distinctively black name? The data offer a clear answer: an unmarried, low-income, undereducated teenage mother from a black neighborhood who has a distinctively black name herself.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-22T04:05:35.017843Z*


---


## Highlight 2

This theory rapidly became an article of faith because it appealed to the factors that, according to John Kenneth Galbraith, most contribute to the formation of conventional wisdom: the ease with which an idea may be understood and the degree to which it affects our personal well-being.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-22T04:05:35.017823Z*


---


## Highlight 3

“How selfish soever man may be supposed,” Smith wrote, “there are evidently some principles in his nature, which interest him in the fortune of others, and render their happiness necessary to him, though he derives nothing from it, except the pleasure of seeing it.”


*Highlighted: 2025-10-22T04:05:35.017802Z*


---


## Highlight 4

Working together, journalists and experts are the architects of much conventional wisdom.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-22T04:05:35.017783Z*


---


## Highlight 5

“When hazard is high and outrage is low, people underreact,” he says. “And when hazard is low and outrage is high, they overreact.”


*Highlighted: 2025-10-22T04:05:35.017765Z*


---


## Highlight 6

The per-hour death rate of driving versus flying, however, is about equal. The two contraptions are equally likely (or, in truth, unlikely) to lead to death.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-22T04:05:35.017746Z*


---


## Highlight 7

A broad swath of psychological and economic research has shown that people will pay different amounts for the same item depending on who is providing it.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-22T04:05:35.017727Z*


---


## Highlight 8

But information asymmetries everywhere have in fact been gravely wounded by the Internet. Information is the currency of the Internet. As a medium, the Internet is brilliantly efficient at shifting information from the hands of those who have it into the hands of those who do not.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-22T04:05:35.017707Z*


---


## Highlight 9

Most of the things that matter were decided long ago—who you are, whom you married, what kind of life you lead. If you are smart, hardworking, well educated, well paid, and married to someone equally fortunate, then your children are more likely to succeed.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-22T04:05:35.017684Z*


---


## Highlight 10

So a big part of a real-estate agent’s job, it would seem, is to persuade the homeowner to sell for less than he would like while at the same time letting potential buyers know that a house can be bought for less than its listing price.


*Highlighted: 2025-10-22T04:05:35.017636Z*


---

