# Book Highlights 39257949

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 10
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

If you want your ideas to be stickier, you’ve got to break someone’s guessing machine and then fix it.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.367503Z*


---


## Highlight 2

Curiosity, he says, happens when we feel a gap in our knowledge.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.367482Z*


---


## Highlight 3

We’ve seen that compact ideas are stickier, but that compact ideas alone aren’t valuable—only ideas with profound compactness are valuable. So, to make a profound idea compact you’ve got to pack a lot of meaning into a little bit of messaging. And how do you do that? You use flags. You tap the existing memory terrain of your audience. You use what’s already there.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.367461Z*


---


## Highlight 4

The takeaway is that it can be the honesty and trustworthiness of our sources, not their status, that allows them to act as authorities. Sometimes antiauthorities are even better than authorities.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.367441Z*


---


## Highlight 5

There are, in fact, only two ways to beat the Curse of Knowledge reliably. The first is not to learn anything. The second is to take your ideas and transform them.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.367422Z*


---


## Highlight 6

Abstraction makes it harder to understand an idea and to remember it. It also makes it harder to coordinate our activities with others, who may interpret the abstraction in very different ways. Concreteness helps us avoid these problems. This is perhaps the most important lesson that Aesop can teach us.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.367401Z*


---


## Highlight 7

This finding suggests that it may be the tangibility, rather than the magnitude, of the benefits that makes people care. You don’t have to promise riches and sex appeal and magnetic personalities. It may be enough to promise reasonable benefits that people can easily imagine themselves enjoying.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.367379Z*


---


## Highlight 8

Mysteries are powerful, Cialdini says, because they create a need for closure. “You’ve heard of the famous Aha! experience, right?” he says. “Well, the Aha! experience is much more satisfying when it is preceded by the Huh? experience.”


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.367346Z*


---


## Highlight 9

The moral of this story is not to “dumb things down.” The manufacturing people faced complex problems and they needed smart answers. Rather, the moral of the story is to find a “universal language,” one that everyone speaks fluently. Inevitably, that universal language will be concrete.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.367310Z*


---


## Highlight 10

Concrete language helps people, especially novices, understand new concepts. Abstraction is the luxury of the expert. If you’ve got to teach an idea to a room full of people, and you aren’t certain what they know, concreteness is the only safe language.


*Highlighted: 2025-11-24T04:14:58.367240Z*


---

