# Book Highlights 39257965

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 20
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

“Self-belief is immensely powerful. The most successful people I know believe in themselves almost to the point of delusion,” he once wrote. “If you don’t believe in yourself, it’s hard to let yourself have contrarian ideas about the future. But this is where most value gets created.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-12T04:05:09.931679Z*


---


## Highlight 2

The contest explored a drug discovery technique called the quantitative structure-activity relationship, or QSAR, which Dahl had never heard of when he went to work on the Merck data. As Hinton put it: “George wiped out the whole field without even knowing its name.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-12T04:05:09.931643Z*


---


## Highlight 3

He rated ideas on how much weight he had lost because he had forgotten to eat.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-12T04:05:09.931607Z*


---


## Highlight 4

From the beginning, the lines that separated artificial intelligence from computer science, psychology, and neuroscience were blurred as various academic camps sprung up around this new breed of technology, each mapping the landscape in its own way.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-12T04:05:09.931571Z*


---


## Highlight 5

“The theme in Geoff’s group was always: What’s old is new,” Dahl says. “If it’s a good idea, you keep trying for twenty years. If it’s a good idea, you keep trying it until it works. It doesn’t stop being a good idea because it doesn’t work the first time you try it.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-12T04:05:09.931535Z*


---


## Highlight 6

This fundamental concept—silicon built specifically for neural networks—would remake the worldwide chip industry, though that moment was still two decades away.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-12T04:05:09.931497Z*


---


## Highlight 7

Hinton chose an auction. In the end, four names joined the bidding for his new company: Baidu, Google, Microsoft, and a two-year-old start-up most of the world had never heard of. This was DeepMind, a London company founded by a young neuroscientist named Demis Hassabis that would grow to become the most celebrated and influential AI lab of the decade.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-12T04:05:09.931461Z*


---


## Highlight 8

Like the Perceptron, the Boltzmann Machine would learn by analyzing data, including sounds and images. But it added a new twist. It would also learn by creating its own sounds and images and then comparing what it created to what it analyzed.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-12T04:05:09.931423Z*


---


## Highlight 9

As an undergraduate at Harvard, using over three thousand vacuum tubes and a few parts from an old B-52 bomber, Minsky built what may have been the first neural network, a machine he called SNARC.


*Highlighted: 2025-09-12T04:05:09.931383Z*


---


## Highlight 10

For him, this attitude was encapsulated by an oft-repeated quote from Machiavelli: “Make mistakes of ambition and not mistakes of sloth.”


*Highlighted: 2025-09-12T04:05:09.931328Z*


---


## Highlight 11

GARY Marcus came from a long line of thinkers who believe in the importance of nature, not just nurture. They’re called nativists, and they argue that a significant portion of all human knowledge is wired into the brain, not learned from experience.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.124307Z*


---


## Highlight 12

Following Minsky’s lead, most researchers embraced what was called “symbolic AI.”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.124269Z*


---


## Highlight 13

Neural networks did need more computing power, but no one realized just how much they needed. As Geoff Hinton later put it: “No one ever thought to ask: ‘Suppose we need a million times more?’”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.124231Z*


---


## Highlight 14

In January, Google announced it was acquiring DeepMind, a fifty-person company, for $650 million. It was another photo finish. Facebook had also bid for the London lab, offering each DeepMind founder twice as much money as they made from the sale to Google.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.124193Z*


---


## Highlight 15

Whereas neural networks learned tasks on their own by analyzing data, symbolic AI did not. It behaved according to very particular instructions laid down by human engineers—discrete rules that defined everything a machine was supposed to do in each and every situation it might encounter.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.124156Z*


---


## Highlight 16

The AlexNet paper would become one of the most influential papers in the history of computer science, with over sixty thousand citations from other scientists.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.124117Z*


---


## Highlight 17

The rise of deep learning marked a fundamental change in the way digital technology was built. Rather than carefully defining how a machine was supposed to behave, one rule at a time, one line of code at a time, engineers were beginning to build machines that could learn tasks through their own experiences, and these experiences spanned such enormous amounts of digital information, no human could ever wrap their head around it all. The result was a new breed of machine that was not only more powerful than before but also more mysterious and unpredictable.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.124078Z*


---


## Highlight 18

Their original sin was that they called their field “artificial intelligence.” This gave decades of onlookers the impression that scientists were on the verge of re-creating the powers of the brain when, in reality, they were not.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.124040Z*


---


## Highlight 19

“If Geoff Hinton is a fox, then Yann LeCun is a hedgehog,” says University of California–Berkeley professor Jitendra Malik, borrowing a familiar analogy from the philosopher Isaiah Berlin. “Hinton is bubbling with these ideas, zillions and zillions of ideas bouncing in different directions. Yann is much more single-minded. The fox knows many little things and the hedgehog knows one big thing.”


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.123999Z*


---


## Highlight 20

The answer, Rumelhart suggested, was a process called “backpropation.” This was essentially an algorithm, based on differential calculus, that sent a kind of mathematical feedback cascading down the hierarchy of neurons as they analyzed more data and gained a better understanding of what each weight should be.


*Highlighted: 2024-09-04T04:06:46.123951Z*


---

