# Book Highlights 39257946

**Source:** Readwise
**Total Highlights:** 10
**Exported:** 2026-05-04

---


## Highlight 1

When you start a sentence with “no,” “but,” “however,” or any variation thereof, no matter how friendly your tone or how many cute mollifying phrases you throw in to acknowledge the other person’s feelings, the message to the other person is You are wrong.


*Highlighted: 2025-12-24T04:16:47.067980Z*


---


## Highlight 2

One of the greatest mistakes of successful people is the assumption, “I am successful. I behave this way. Therefore, I must be successful because I behave this way!” The challenge is to make them see that sometimes they are successful in spite of this behavior.


*Highlighted: 2025-12-24T04:16:47.067960Z*


---


## Highlight 3

People who believe they can succeed see opportunities where others see threats.


*Highlighted: 2025-12-24T04:16:47.067940Z*


---


## Highlight 4

It is a whole lot easier to see our problems in others than it is to see them in ourselves. Even though we may be able to deny our problems to ourselves, they may be very obvious to the people who are observing us.


*Highlighted: 2025-12-24T04:16:47.067920Z*


---


## Highlight 5

One of the greatest mistakes of successful people is the assumption, “I behave this way, and I achieve results. Therefore, I must be achieving results because I behave this way.”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-24T04:16:47.067901Z*


---


## Highlight 6

Successful people become great leaders when they learn to shift the focus from themselves to others.


*Highlighted: 2025-12-24T04:16:47.067880Z*


---


## Highlight 7

It is extremely difficult for successful people to listen to other people tell them something that they already know without communicating somehow that (a) “we already knew that” and (b) “we know a better way.”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-24T04:16:47.067861Z*


---


## Highlight 8

Stopping this behavior is not hard—a three-step drill in which you (a) pause before opening your mouth to ask yourself, “Is anything I say worth it?” (b) conclude that it isn’t, and (c) say, “Thank you.”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-24T04:16:47.067840Z*


---


## Highlight 9

Try this: For one week treat every idea that comes your way from another person with complete neutrality. Think of yourself as a human Switzerland. Don’t take sides. Don’t express an opinion. Don’t judge the comment. If you find yourself constitutionally incapable of just saying “Thank you,” make it an innocuous, “Thanks, I hadn’t considered that.” Or, “Thanks. You’ve given me something to think about.”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-24T04:16:47.067816Z*


---


## Highlight 10

“We spend a lot of time teaching leaders what to do. We don’t spend enough time teaching leaders what to stop. Half the leaders I have met don’t need to learn what to do. They need to learn what to stop.”


*Highlighted: 2025-12-24T04:16:47.067776Z*


---

